somewhere deep underground in super
secret laboratories
scientists are trying to create a black
hole
it looks like the latest experiment was
a success
the black hole hovers above the desk for
a moment
but then in a split second it swallows
it whole
uh-oh after its meal the black hole
grows until it is out of control
microscopes and test tubes fly into the
dark void
soon everything in the room has been
consumed each time it eats
it grows bigger and bigger and attracts
even larger objects
on the surface people go about their day
as usual
some joggers stop their run when they
see a giant black sphere
growing in the distance houses are torn
from their foundations
and cars fly through the air towards the
black abyss
in just a few minutes the black hole has
enveloped our entire planet
then it grows big enough to consume the
moon and mars
the black hole is now heavier than
anything in our solar system
all of the planets begin to circle it
before becoming food for the monster
finally even the sun is extinguished in
the belly of the beast
well that was pretty bleak yeah don't
worry
this isn't how the scenario would play
out in real life
our scientists may actually be capable
of creating a black hole
but is far safer than this the effort to
make a black hole is led by the
scientists
working in geneva on something called
the large hadron collider
this machine basically makes particles
move at high speeds
until they collide when this happens
they release a lot of energy
and create a lot of interesting effects
scientists think that energy released by
these collisions
might be enough to create a black hole
some people were so
worried by this that they even tried to
ban the construction of the large hadron
collider
luckily if a black hole did appear it
would be
so small that it wouldn't be able to do
anything
black holes actually produce a lot of
energy and release it
often as heat like a furnace that means
that they will fade away
when they run out of fuel if one
appeared in the experiment
it would instantly burn out and
disappear in a billionth of a second
even if a stable microscopic black hole
was created
it would grow so slowly that nothing
would happen
assuming that it survived long enough to
absorb the tiny particles around it
a black hole of this size would take
about half a trillion years to gain a
pound of weight
black holes could actually be really
useful one with the mass of mount
everest would emit enough energy to
completely power humanity
even better black holes are so dense
that the one
this big would only take up a tiny bit
of space
we couldn't create anything as enormous
as the naturally occurring black holes
though
some can weigh hundreds of thousands of
times as much as our sun
recently scientists have observed a real
black hole
feast the site of a black hole tearing
an enormous star apart
is one of the most mesmerizing sights in
the universe
heavier and more destructive than
anything else in existence
the black hole is both amazing and
terrifying
and black holes aren't actually black at
all
they're so massive that even light can't
escape their pool
meaning that they're actually invisible
scientists can only find them with
special instruments
most natural black holes are born as
stars reach the end of their lifespan
you can picture healthy stars as giant
furnaces
that burn hydrogen and give off
unbelievable amounts of energy
every second stars like our sun produce
more energy than humanity has ever
produced
which pushes outwards and makes it want
to expand
this is what eventually finds its way to
earth as the heat that birthed life
on our planet the only thing stopping
this expansion is gravity
a force that basically just pulls
objects toward something heavy
most people know gravity is something
that keeps us planted to the ground
and stops us from flying off into space
the force of gravity of a star is so
strong on stars
that it makes them want to implode in on
themselves
so when a star is healthy the force of
gravity pushes inwards
and the energy it releases tries to
inflate it like a balloon
these forces mostly cancel each other
out and stop it from doing much at all
when a star burns through its fuel
though nothing is pushing outwards to
stop
it from collapsing in on itself some
really big stars make so much energy
that they gradually expand into
something called
a red giant when they run out of fuel
they cool
and gravity pushes the enormous object
into a tiny space
scientists use our sun to measure how
big things in space
are our sun weighs one solar mass
if a light star like our sun implodes
not much happens which is lucky if
you've ever worried about being
swallowed up into a black hole
if a red giant around 10 solar masses
implodes though
some incredible things can happen the
collapse of one of these is so
intense that it explodes into a
supernova
releasing a light as bright as the
entire galaxy
stars that are massive enough to produce
supernovas
sometimes become black holes their
weight causes gravity to push down
and compact them until they collapse
into a black hole
in less than a second
the inside of a black hole is mysterious
and unexplored
for obvious reasons one thing we do know
is that they're so massive that they can
even distort
time one second near the black disk can
be equal to weeks
or even months on earth depending on its
size
in 2019 scientists watched a black hole
devour a star the size of our sun
even though it was 860 thousand miles
wide
the star was completely trapped in the
black hole's gravitational field
for a while they danced around each
other gradually coming closer and closer
eventually though the star was
extinguished in the invisible mouth of
the black hole
the black hole sometimes releases beams
of energy into space
sizzling plasma flies out at 6200 miles
per second
as the black hole finishes destroying
the star
about half of the star's mass is
consumed while the rest is ejected into
space
incredibly these insatiable titans even
consume
other black holes when they get big
enough the collision of two black holes
was recently witnessed by scientists
when one weighing in at 85 solar masses
met another that was 66 solar masses
when black holes interact the bigger one
always swallows the smaller
adding even more mass to itself the
resulting black hole here
reach 142 solar masses big
it's hard to believe but this is still
very small for a black hole
it will continue to consume everything
around it and might even reach the size
of a supermassive black hole at some
point
these are unbelievably big and
destructive
our entire galaxy the milky way rotates
around the gravitational field of one of
these supermassive black holes
this monster weighs around four million
solar masses
or more than a trillion times our planet
and that
isn't even the biggest they get it's
also
theorized that black holes can be made
without a dramatic explosion
big gas clouds that weigh hundreds of
thousands of solar masses
could condense under the force of their
gravity to make a star
this object would already be so heavy
that it would continue to compact
until it became a black hole skipping
the supernova stage
supermassive black holes are so far away
and hard to observe
that scientist doesn't have a full
understanding of them yet
we don't know much about what happens
inside a black hole
leading to a lot of speculation for
decades
people have theorized about how we could
use black holes
knowing that black holes distort time
means that someone could use it to
travel to the future with the right
technology
if it was possible to build a ship
strong enough to withstand
the powerful gravitational fields it
would be simple
all they would need to do is decide how
far they want to go
and fly around the outside of the black
hole
in the few minutes or hours they spent
near the time warp
years could have passed back on earth
they could be thousands of years old
without having
aged at all physically wow that's
officially a mind blower